W-14237985 mtf (#232)
mulesoft/docs-mule-sdk: modules/ROOT/pages/mtf-expecting-errors.adoc

> = Expected Errors

Reviewer: Should this be Validating Expected Errors?

Reviewer: Or is this a reference topic?
For multiple-task topics, use gerund in the H1.

Author: So there is a parent page about MTF Testing Examples and each subpage has an example, like Expected Errors or Sources. Here is the beta site for better visualization: https://beta.docs.mulesoft.com/beta-mtf/mule-sdk/1.1/mtf-testing-examples

Do I still need to add the gerund? I thought it was better to keep it consistent with the nav

Reviewer: Thanks. It definitely helps to see these in context. I think you're right. No change!

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Validate the error types and error descriptions that your module throws.

Reviewer: Any more info you can provide here, like what you use to do it?

Author: I think the [parent page](https://beta.docs.mulesoft.com/beta-mtf/mule-sdk/1.1/mtf-testing-examples) gives more info into this but let me know if you think otherwise

== Before You Begin

> * You must know how to define the errors that your module throws. For more information, refer to xref:errors.adoc[Errors Definition].

Reviewer: Do you need the hard-coded link text?

> * You must know how to define the errors that your module throws. For more information, refer to xref:errors.adoc[Errors Definition].

Reviewer: Since this is just one bullet, make it a paragraph instead.

> == Example

Reviewer: Any more info in the heading? Example: Error Type Definition and Provider

(Avoid generic, single-word headings)

> Suppose there is a module that defines errors as follows:

Reviewer: I sort of want more context here - why are you giving this example (to use later?). Is there any more info you can provide about the examples?

Reviewer: (I don't think we have any guidance on "Suppose...")

Avoid "there is" construction, if you can. 

You could say something like, In this example, the module defines.... The following sections describe...

.Error type definition
[source,java,linenums]
----
public enum SimpleError implements ErrorTypeDefinition<SimpleError> {
  INVALID_PARAMETER, TIME_OUT, NOT_ALLOWED
}
----

.Error type provider
[source,java,linenums]
----
public class ExecuteErrorsProvider implements ErrorTypeProvider {
    @Override
    public Set<ErrorTypeDefinition> getErrorTypes() {
        HashSet<ErrorTypeDefinition> errors = new HashSet<>();
        errors.add(SimpleError.INVALID_PARAMETER);
        errors.add(SimpleError.TIME_OUT);
        return errors;
    }
}
----

.Operation that throws the error
[source,java,linenums]
----
@Throws(ExecuteErrorsProvider.class)
public void execute(Integer number) {
    if (number <= 0) {
        throw new ModuleException("Parameter 'number' should be greater than 0", SimpleError.INVALID_PARAMETER);
    }
}
----

> You can create tests to validate the expected error type and error description.

Reviewer: Avoid "you can" construction. Maybe something like "Use MUnit to ...."

> == Validating an Expected Error Type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Validate an Expected Error Type
```

Reviewer: For tasks, use imperative.

> You can validate that the error thrown by the module in the example has the proper error type as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To validate that the error thrown by the module in the example has the proper error type:
```

[source, xml, linenums]
----
<munit:test name="testErrorType" expectedErrorType="TEST-CONNECTOR:INVALID_PARAMETER">
    <munit:execution>
        <test-connector:execute number="0"/>
    </munit:execution>
</munit:test>
----

> == Validating an Expected Error Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Validate an Expected Error Description
```
